DESCRIPTION

Objective: To use hive features for data engineering or analysis and sharing the actionable insights

Problem Statement:
NewYork stock exchange data of seven years, between 2010 to 2016, is captured for 500+ listed companies. The data set comprises of intra-day prices and volume traded for each listed company. The data serves both for machine learning and exploratory analysis projects, to automate the trading process and to predict the next trading-day winners or losers.. The scope of this project is limited to exploratory data analysis.

Domain: BFSI

Analysis to be done: Exploratory analysis to understand how MoM or YoY companies from different sectors or industries and states have progressed in a period of 7 years

Content: This data set contains prices.csv and securities.csv files having the following features:

Prices.csv:

Date: Trading date
Symbol: Ticker code or listed company code on NY stock exchange
Open: Intra-day opening price for each listed company
Close: Intra-day closing price for each listed company
Low: Intra-day lowest price for each listed company
High: Intra-day highest price for each listed company
Volume: Number of shares traded per day per company
Securities.csv:

Ticker_Symbol: Country to which the customer belongs
Security: Legal name of the listed company
Sector: Business vertical of the listed company
Sub_Industry: Business domain of the listed company within a Sector.
Headquarter: Headquarters address
Steps to perform:

     1) Create a data pipeline using sqoop to pull the data from the table below from MYSQL server into Hive.

a. MYSQL DATABASE NAME: BDHS_PROJECT

i. Stock_prices
ii. Stock_companies

Check the TABLE description: STOCK_PRICES

Column Name	Datatype
Trading_date	Date
Symbol	String
Open	double
Close	double
Low	double
High	double
Volume	int

TABLE: STOCK_COMPANIES

Column Name	Datatype
Symbol	String
Company_name	String
Sector	String
Sub_industry	String
Headquarter	String

2) Create a new hive table with the following fields by joining the above two hive tables.
Please use appropriate Hive built-in functions for columns (a,b,e and h to l).

Trading_year: Should contain YYYY for each record
Trading_month: Should contain MM or MMM for each record
Symbol: Ticker code
CompanyName: Legal name of the listed company
State: State to be extracted from headquarters value.
Sector: Business vertical of the listed company
Sub_Industry: Business domain of the listed company within a sector
Open: Average of intra-day opening price by month and year for each listed company
Close: Average of intra-day closing price by month and year for each listed company
Low: Average of intra-day lowest price by month and year for each listed company
High: Average of intra-day highest price by month and year for each listed company
Volume: Average of number of shares traded by month and year for each listed company
DATA ANALYSIS USING HIVE


         3) Find the top five companies that are good for investment
         4) Show the best-growing industry by each state, having at least two or more industries mapped.
         5) For each sector find the following.

Worst year
b. Best year
c. Stable year
